---
layout: post
title: Struggles and realizations
tags: major-studio mfa
---

Transitioning from the concept and research portion of this project into actual implementation has been more difficult than I expected. I don’t have a background in data visualization, so I’ve had to kind of figure things out as I go, which means my goals are constantly evolving and shifting, and I’m certain there’s still a lot more to learn in the field. Yet, my conceptual learning can only go so far, there remain major blockers in my technical understanding and feasibility. I’ve had to rely on AI to figure out a lot of this coding, which has taken me surprisingly far, but I want to achieve something a lot more engaging, human, and immersive. I feel it’s time to go back to the drawing board and think critically about how I can achieve that with what I know. 

The biggest realization I’ve had is that I’m missing a story, and the story is the part I care about most deeply. Previously my precedents were just cool and interactive data visualizations, but I’ve since found far more compelling precedents that align more with my vision — projects that are created for a reason, to convey something important and meaningful. Although I have no data visualization background, my professional experience is as a designer in the field of journalism, and I think that's influenced my objectives as a creative as well. I know that I want to convey something, but actually figuring that out takes a lot of meditation and contemplation that I haven’t allotted much time to this semester. 

I know that the broad strokes of my interest in this topic are around the history of computation, but if I dig deeper, the part that has been really fascinating to me is the impact of the war on overall computing power, both in terms of the implications of that fact and also because it feels relatively unknown. I’ve somewhat shied away from making this a project about war though, because it felt very limiting and I was also unsure if the specificity would be interesting or novel information to anyone else. 

I think this uncertainty of “does this even matter?” has been a thorn in the side of many a project of mine, and the best thing I can do is double down on what I find compelling. When I look at the stories that have moved me, they all contain that seed of conviction. 

With that in mind, my plan for the next round of prototyping is to create some sort of script or storyboard that is centered around the story I want to tell. Crafting a story and a real narrative structure is also new to me — but also something I’ve aways been deeply intrigued by, especially being a huge reader. In the back of my mind, I’m still concerned on the technical implementation and how to achieve it (that entire part of the problem hasn’t been solved yet), but I finally feel more solid about where I’m at. 