---
layout: post
title: Absolute narcissism and crippling self-doubt
tags: mfa
---

Around this time of the semester is when I usually start suffering. It’s likely a combination of many things — for one, I struggle a lot with multiple deadlines at once and figuring out how to prioritize my time efficiently (I’ve been told this is an effect of my latent attention deficit disorder). But I think the real culprit at play is my overwhelming and debilitating perfectionism. I feel deeply connected to everything I make, and therefore I need everything to meet a certain standard, one that results in a toxic cycle of exhaustion and fervor. 

I find myself shifting into a schedule of working till 5 or 6am because I feel deeply creatively inspired in those hours, yet spending my daytime hours procrastinating, feeling frustrated and overwhelmed at my progress. 

Luckily, my *Digital Dialect* professor gave a lecture this week that I found very reassuring towards my current internal crises. The lecture was titled “the art of wasting time,” and he spoke about how artists need those periods of procrastination, the bad periods, the struggle, the feeling that everything you make is crap. 

A typical cycle as you work on a project could look like this: *This is amazing -> This is tricky -> This is crap -> I am crap -> This might be okay -> This is amazing*, and so on. He said the transition from *this is crap* to *I am crap* is how you knew you were an artist, because you have connected your identity to what you create. This was a relief to hear, because I have felt quite distressed about both my uncertain identity as an “artist” and also about my seemingly complete lack of artistic ability and talent as I work on all my projects this semester. 

He said art is created in the intersection between absolute narcissism and crippling self-doubt, and the best artists naturally fluctuate between these two states. It’s funny that my crippling self-doubt about my identity as an artist ends up being the thing that convinces me I might be one after all. 